# Grade Diary
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/5qK306DTKRc>
#### Description:
In order to reach it you will have to register an account. Click in register in the navbar and enter your new username, real first and last name , a password without any criterias and confirm the password. You will have to come up with a username, that is not in the database yet and enter some letters followed by a comma nd more letters aus ypur real name, as this gets checked by re. After ur username got checked, the Foramt of your name was correct and the password and confirmation match, u will be added to the SQL database.
After registering you will be redirected to the login page where you can log in. This will render the index template, where theres a navbar with all the functions, which I'll explain later , your real name and a table with allyour subjects and the grades for each subject.
This table will of course be empty until you add some subjects and grades by clicking the add grades item in the navbar , which will render the grades.html template, ba the grades function in app.py and selecting the Add Grades item. This will render the grades template which really is just a form with a select menu and some placeholders for ajax request answers. While there are nno subjects added, the only selectable option in the select menu will be "Add subject", which performs an ajax request to /static/ajax/add_subject.html via get. This will return a html snippet with a form for a Subject inputed as text and and a submit button. Upon submition the form gets submitted via post to /add_subject, which adds this subject to the grades table in the SQL database, if it's not already registered as a subject under the users user_id, (case insensitive). This will the redirect you to the /grades page, where you can now not only select the new subject option, but also the just added subject (and every other subject you added at any point in time).
When selecting any optin but the add subject one ajax will load the /static/ajax/calculator_template which contains a html snippet with an input field for the written grade percentage and an input field for the oral grade percentage, which determins the wighting of those 2, and an input field for the written grade and on for the oral grade, withoput refreshing the page. Under those input fields is a apragraph, whose inner Text is set to "waiting for values" by default but gets changed to the actual grade, which gets calculated by the calculate grade function in Javascript, again without refreshing the page.
Underneath all of that is a submit buutton, which submit pretty much the entire page to /add_to_grade. It needs to submit the entire page, because it needs teh currently selected submect in order to Update the grades for this subject. However, if the selected subject is "add subject", it retruns the call of the /add_subject function via get, but add_subject simply returns None if the request.method is GET.
If an actual subject is submitted to /add_to_grade, its grades will be updated and the share of the added grade will be detimined by how many grades alrady got added. How many were added is stored in the same table and row of the SQL database as teh Subject. And will redirect you to "/", the overview.
You will now see the every subject and the according grade there.
Once your done you can just log out, which will clear your session.
